DATA SCIENCE
It is a tool that uses all kinds of data, algorithms and scientific methods. It is a very important tool as it combines two of the most important things in technology and modern science that is mathematics and computer science together. Organizing, data delivery and packaging are the three most important components involved in data science. Data Science handles data works on them and makes conclusion based on the data.

Prospects Of Data Science

 Use of analytics(data)has led to an increase in jobs of data sciences by almost 50% in almost every industry.
These are the major industries with a demand in data scientists

E-Commerce
This industry requires scientists the most. The prediction of purchases, manipulation of customers and product recommendations and tracking their searches are all done by data scientists.

Manufacturing
Increasing profit, productivity and to lessen the risk are the uses in which data science affects manufacturing.

Here are few examples on how can Data Science be utilized to boost output, streamline operations, and predict trends:

•	Performance, quality assurance, and defect tracking are all important factors to consider.

•	Maintenance that is both predictive and conditional

•	Forecasting demand and throughput

•	Relations with suppliers and the supply chain

•	Pricing on the global market

•	Designing new facilities and automating existing ones

•	For product development and production techniques, new technologies and materials are being developed.

•	Greater energy efficiency and sustainability

Banking and Finance

After the crisis of 2008, this industry is growing very fast. Banks are one of the earliest sectors to adopt IT for security and computing. The use of technology helps them to analyze and cater to their customers and meet their demands and expectations. The use of data science can lead to risk management and management of fraud.

Healthcare and Medical 
Healthcare providers have been given a boost because of use in data science. Information from smart bands, clinics, hospitals and chemists help healthcare providers understand what customers want and create better services and products.
 Data Science in future can help doctors perform operations with the use of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning.

Transportation Industry
This industry utilizes a lot of data. Travel agents can use the data from searches done by people to create specific travel packages to attract people towards their company.

Data Science can help in ticketing and fare collecting systems as well.

Job Roles in Data Sciences
Let's take a look at some of the most in-demand Data Science positions. A business analyst, data scientist, statistician, or data architect are examples of data science employment for freshers.

Big Data Engineer: Within enterprises, big data engineers build, maintain, test, and analyze big data solutions.

Machine Learning Engineer: Machine learning engineers are responsible for designing and implementing machine learning algorithms and systems to solve business problems.

Data engineers/architects design, build, test, and maintain highly scalable data management systems.

Data Scientist: Data scientists must comprehend business difficulties and provide the finest solutions through data analysis and processing.

Statistician: Using data visualization tools or reports, the statistician analyses the results and makes strategic recommendations or incisive predictions.

Data Analysts: Data analysts work with data to manipulate it and visualize it.

Business analysts convert complex data into clearly understandable actionable insights for users through predictive, prescriptive, and descriptive analysis.


AVERAGE Salaries of Data Scientists:
The Salary of Data Scientists depend on the qualifications, experience and their profiles.
The table below shows the salaries based on the job profile .

JOB	SALARY
Software Engineer	2,51,000 – 10,00,000
Data Analyst	1,97,000 - 9,12,000
Senior Software Engineer	4,64,000 – 20,00,000
Data Scientist	3,37,000 - 20,00,000
Software Developer	2,06,000 – 10,00,000
Sr. Software Engineer/Developer/Programmer	4,13,000 - 20,00,000
Senior Business Analyst	4,29,000 – 20,00,000
Business Analyst, IT	2,86,000 – 10,00,000
Senior Data Analyst	3,10,000 - 10,00,000
Software Engineer/Developer/Programmer	2,32,000 – 10,00,000


Companies that recruit data scientists
•	Amazon
•	LinkedIn
•	IBM
•	Walmart Labs
•	Busigence Technologies
•	Fractal Analytics
•	Sigmoid
•	Flipkart
•	Mate Labs
•	Couture

CONCLUSION
There is a bright future of data science in India. Its growth can lead to more job opportunities and can help businesses reach bigger heights and help them cater to customers based on their preferences.
Its incorporation in companies will help employees and customers as the companies employees will  know what are the preferences of the customers and the customers will get better products and services.
Data Science Courses
